# Module 4.4 - Work Planning

> **A work plan** is a meticulous blueprint, mapping out the tasks, timelines, allocated resources, and responsibilities required to bring your project to fruition.
>
> It serves as a compass for project managers, enabling them to track progress, manage resources efficiently, and navigate potential obstacles.

## Project Scope

> Project scope is a critical part of project planning because it defines the *project's goals*, *deliverables*, *tasks*, *costs*, and *deadlines*.
>
> A scope is sometimes referred to as a **statement of work (SOW)**, or **terms of reference (ToR).**

### Elements of Project Scope

- **Project goals**:
  - the overall objectives of the project.
  - should be (**SMART**)
    - specific,
    - measurable,
    - achievable,
    - relevant, and
    - time-bound.
- **Deliverables**:
  - the tangible products or services that will be produced by the project.
  - should be **clearly defined** and **measurable**.
- **Tasks**:
  - the individual pieces of work that need to be completed in order to produce the deliverables.
  - should be **organized** in a logical order and **have clear start and end dates.**
- **Costs**:
  - the estimated expenses associated with the project.
  - should include the cost of labor,
    - materials, equipment, and other resources.
- **Deadlines**:
  - the dates by which the project goals, deliverables, and tasks **must** be completed.

### What should be in a Problem Scope Statement

- **Project justification**
  - uses the [user story](../Week3/3.6-problem-definition.md#user-stories) format
- **Product Scope**
  - answers what the project covers
- **Acceptance Criteria**
  - the non-negotiable requirements
  - must be met before deliverables are accepted
- **Deliverables**
  - includes reports, prototypes,
    - software, or any tangible or intangible outputs.
- **Project Exclusions**
  - what is **NOT** involved in the project
  - once noted, don't waste time on it
- **Constraints**
  - blockers to success
  - deadlines
  - budgets
  - tools
- **Assumptions**
  - what you assume is true

## Scope Creep

> Preventing Scope creep is not the goal, but carefully **controlling** it is the idea.
>
> scope creep occurs when those needs are increased without permission or other safeguards.
>
> also known as feature creep, focus creep, creeping functionality and kitchen-sink syndrome – can sneak up and destroy a project.

### How to manage it

- Define your scope with precision
  - character the boundary
  - anticipate for the "could you just...?"
  - document anything that is outer scope (Exclusions)
  - present it to key players and people who will be part of the project
- Get formal authority
- You need to **get it right the firs time**

### How to manage situations that really change (Scope creep)

- Have a structured change control process
- Use the Agile project methodology
  - Ensure there is a proper governance
- A version2 or phase 2 of the project
