# Module 4.5 - Writing Foundations

## Why we share stories

- it helps to convey complex information in a simple and relatable way,
- allows stakeholders to better understand and connect with new ideas and concepts.
- serves as a way to motivate and inspire when we share
  - progress updates
  - success stories
- helps to create a sense of community
  - this builds relationships among colleagues for effective work environment

## Storytelling Rubric

What to look out for

- Audience
  - content addresses a specific audience
  - successfully provides relevant content that resonates with them.
- Language
  - inviting tone and accurate diction articulation
- Voice
  - should consistent and engaging
- Narrative
  - free of "most common storytelling mistakes"
  - use imagery to make the story relatable
- Structuring
  - a clear purpose or problem definition
  - has a clear and engaging call to action

## Writing Process

### Steps to Personal Writing

1. Understand your audience
   - determine the following<sup>1<sup>
     - what questions do they expect you to answer?
     - what tone is appropriate?
     - what is their schedule?
     - who are they?
2. Determine/Define your purpose
   - what are you trying to communicate?
   - knowing the purpose keeps you focused on the topic
   - it helps you to communicate more effectively
3. Planning and organization
   - have a clear mind map or outline
   - follow your outline throughout your writing
4. Writing clearly and concisely
   - use easy to understand language
   - be sure your audience understand your diction
   - avoid unnecessary phrases and jargons
5. Proofreading and editing
   - an extra pair of eyes catches errors easily, ask for review
   - areas of improvement becomes more apparent
6. Follow professional writing etiquette
   - what are the accepted methods for your writing?
   - are you citing the right sources?

### How to Write a Speech Outline

- Opening
  - how to get the attention of the audience
- Premise
  - the core and reason for the presentation
- Body
  - the actual idea you are selling or point you are putting across
- A call to action
  - what do you want the audience to do?
- Close
  - as much as possible, it should tie back into the opening

### How to Write a Speech Outline - Another way

> Tell 'em what you're gonna say, say it, and then tell 'em what you just said.

- Tease your idea through a creative story or a similar approach.
- Tell them what you will talk about (preview).
- Walk through each topic.
- Review what you talked about.
- Include a call to action.

## Communication Best Practices (The 7Cs)

- **Clear** - main ideas are easy to identify and understand.
- **Concise** - to the point without using unneeded words or images.
- **Concrete** - includes specific examples or explanations.
- **Correct** - in information, word choice and grammar
- **Coherent** - information presented in a logical sequence.
- **Complete** - provides enough information so the audience can understand.
- **Courteous** - polite and professional.

## Technical Writing

> a form of communication that professionals use to convey information about specialized topics.

- it breaks down complex concepts to easy-to-understand concepts
- ensures users understand what the product does
- can be
  - manuals
  - developer guides
  - white papers or reports

## 8 Element of Good Writing (The 8s)

- Simple
- Specific
- Surprising
- Stirring Language
  - use emotions, logic doesn't work here
- Seductive
- Smart
- Social
- Story-driven

<hr>

## Sources

[1]: Steps to Business Writing (<https://smallbusiness.chron.com/achieve-successful-written-communication-business-environment-4663.html>)
