# Module 4.6 - Communicating a Story

## The Power of Storytelling

A story can...

- Inspire people to join our case
- Encourage donors to fund our projects
- Illustrate our organization impact
- Facilitates learning and retention
- Differentiate your brand from the rest
  - compelling narratives create strong identity.
- Build trust and credibility

### Why stories are a great way to illustrate problems

- **Reliability**
  - makes it easier for the average person to relate and connect easily
- **Empathy / Sympathy**
  - causes emotional reactions due to effects it has on the lives of real people
- Concreteness
  - has the ability to show real life effects and not just statistics

## Problem Impact Assessment

> it helps you understand the primary stakeholders affected by the problem and how it impacts them.

### Got questions? Ask...

1. **Which groups of people are primarily impacted by this problem?**

   - Individuals: Consider age groups, specific sectors, and geographic location.
   - Corporations: Think about industries, business size, and functional areas.
   - Public Entities: Include governments at different levels, non-profits, and NGOs.
   - Multi-national Organizations

2. **How does the problem affect each group?**
   - Consider areas such as
     - lifestyle and quality of life,
     - labour conditions, health and well-being (physical, mental, emotional),
     - efficiency and productivity, safety and protection.

3. **How does this impact manifest in their everyday lives?**
   - Think about how the problem affects their daily routines and experiences.

4. **How does this impact change their quality of life or outcomes?**
   - Explore how the problem alters their overall well-being and results.

## Crafting a Power Story

- Identify a protagonist
  - who does impacted most?
  - make a name and give them a character
  - if they are real people you know, it makes it even more real
    - it tells why you are passionate about solving this problem
- Get into the Protagonist's shoes
  - how does the problem their day to day life?
  - how does make their life difficult?
- Describe their situation in vivid detail
  - be as detailed as possible
  - what have they tried to solve the problem, and what was the outcome?
  - when the problem occur?
- Think about how things can change
  - how would reality if their problem was solved
  - how would they feel?

### Knowing your Audience

- Role
  - what are their goals or objectives
- Triggers
  - what should you avoid or prioritize for this group/individual?
- Needs
  - what are their desires/problems?
  - how can you fix them?
- Communication style
  - how should you communicate?
- Value to You
  - what do you as the outcome?
  - what's in it for you? What's your end goal?

### The Three Persuasive Appeals

The balance between these appeals is known as **audience awareness**

- **Logos: Logical Appeal**
  - uses good evidence and reasoning to construct a sound argument
    - ensure you have a tight relationship between the claim and the evidence
  - appeals to logic and facts through reason
  - usually backed by statistics and charts
- **Ethos: Credibility Appeal**
  - character
  - verified credentials, an expert.
  - established by accepting that the persuader is *trustworthy*
  - usually by citing sources or testimonials
- **Pathos: Emotional Appeal**
  - Often the most effective
  - appeals to one's emotions and creating an emotional response
  - use stories, share experiences

> ...think through how you want your audience to **FEEL**, what you want them to **THINK** and what you need them to **KNOW** after hearing your story.
