# Module 1.2 Tech Onboarding - Notes

## Canvas

- The Canvas platform is for learning concepts and working on weekly assignments.
  - Broken down into Modules (think, Chapters)
  - there are areas for Assignments, Quizzes and Grades

## The Portal

- The Portal is where you communicate with the community.
- You need access to a reliable internet connection to be successful
  - most of the content are given and tackled using some of internet access
  - The Canvas platform is not offline, so is The Portal
  - an option might be to visit the City Hubs so you can utilize the fast
  internet connection and power.

## Tools of the Trade

- You need a laptop or a desktop to navigate through the program.
  - using a phone is not a good option since most features work better on wide screens.
- The only place you could use a phone without a problem is on The Room Portal
  - messaging and interacting with the community
- Canvas does not guarantee that documents from phones are well-recognized.
- The weekly tests are timed are taking it on the phone limits you.
  - it may be slow, poor and non-functional
  - you could fail the test as a result.
- The peer-grading functionality is only supported on a computer.

## Stay updated

Find tech resources that serve your interest and follow them or subscribe to them.

## Video Conferencing Etiquette and Tools

### Etiquettes

- Mute yourself when not speaking
- Don't receive calls while in a meeting
- Appear ready for the meeting
- Your time is important, so is the time of your clients
- Pay attention and contribute when needed, don't cut in intermittently.
- Be professionally dressed if video will be turned on.
- Be in a quiet and well-lit environment
- Have a professional background

### Tools

- Zoom
- Teams
- Webex
- Google Meet
