# Module 1.4 - Program Overview Notes

## What's unique about this Program?

### The Holistic Approach

In this program, you invest your time in

- discovering who you are.
  - your strengths and weaknesses
- developing your character
  - the DoHardThings mindset
- forming healthy lifestyle habits
  - take breaks
  - exercise for a while: go for a walk, maybe
  - handle stress
- exploring rewarding ways to merge your professional aspirations and mission
  - connect with the community
  - network with your peers
  - ask for help and give support when needed.

### The "Extra Sauce"

After successfully completing this program, you'll embody the [8 Meta Skills](1.3-intro-to-alx-n-the-room.md#the-8-meta-skills---grouped)

### Peer Support

You have a community of people to turn to when you need help with understanding concepts. Also, you get to share ideas and work on projects together.

Over all, you end building connections that will in turn help you during and even after the course.

### Real-World Focus and Applied Projects

No fluff, just real stuff. You will be working on real-world scenarios that map directly to what you may encounter in your workplace as a tech professional.

## Why the Program focuses on the 8 Meta Skills

As a tech professional, your ability to be well-equipped and well-informed helps greatly in your over all competence.

With a high competence in the [8 Meta Skills](1.1-getting-started.md#the-8-meta-skills), you stand out in the job market and of higher value to potential employers.

The program focuses on these areas because they are the recipe for a successful career.
This way, you get to hone your skills in each of the skills and become an all-round tech professional with the ability to

- **think critically**
- **make decisions based on real data**
- **collaborate successfully with teams on projects**
- **seize opportunities and make the best out of them**
- **etc.**

## How to Stay in the Program

- Complete and submit Weekly Tests and Milestones on time
  - Score at least 75% on each
- Complete the Peer Review
- Visit the City Hub twice every week on different days.

## Success is not a Happenstance

- Success is intentional and not by luck or coincidence.
- You need to GYSHIDO.
- Skim through Weekly Test and Milestone, and keep them in mind while reviewing the learning materials
- Take time to grasp the concepts
- Use the quizzes to reinforce your learning. Go back if you need more clarity.

## Requirements

Everything in [here](#how-to-stay-in-the-program) reiterated over and over again.

ALso, there are code of conducts that need to followed in order to be in good standings. The code of conduct is exactly what you'd expect in being courteous or
showing etiquette.

There is strong emphasis on visiting the City Hub, at least two days per week.

## Stay to up date

Events can be online or in-person

- Add the ALX Foundations Calendar to your Google calendar
- Check your mailbox and active on the The Portal.
