# Module 1.6 - Program Overview: Part 2 Notes

## Global Challenges and Great Opportunities

Start with the problem you want to solve, and then curate your knowledge around that problem.

### 7 Grand Challenges

- Urbanization
  - the architecture needed
- Education
- Infrastructure
  - transportation systems
- Health care
  - how do build health care models that leverage the best of  technology and health care policy.
- Youth Unemployment
  - Requires innovative thinking
  - Better preparation for jobs that do exist.
  - Ways to help young people create their own jobs
- Governance
  - one that creates just and equitable societies
  - a governance that does discriminate against the minority
- Climate change
  - requires the collaboration of an unprecedented level across the world to address this challenge

### 7 Grand Opportunities

- Agriculture
- Natural resources
- Arts, culture and design
- Tourism
- Women Empowerment
- Regional Integration
- Wildlife conservation

## The Daily 3: Habits for developing Intrapersonal Intelligence

You need to practice intentionality, self-awareness, and commitment in order to build new habits. It is NOT a **happenstance**.

- Morning Pages
- Mindfulness Meditation
- Movement

### Morning pages

Provides you with the opportunity to clear out space, so that your mind is more open to receive inspiration.

- Primary tool of creative discovery.
- always remember that your [Censor's](https://www.wordnik.com/words/censor "One that condemns or censures.") negative opinions are NOT the truth.
- Nonnegotiable
  - never skip or skimp on morning pages
  - you don't have to be in a good mood to write morning pages, just write them.
- It is a great pathway a strong and clear sense of Self.

### **Rules**

- Best if written them in the morning, but anytime is fine.
- Write 3 pages
- Don't know what to write? Write "I can't think of anything to write..." *(From book)*
  - "I don't know what to write. Maybe it's because..."
- the *process* is not important, it's the **product**.
- Don't type, write it.

### Movement

Insights and creative ideas are likely to crop up when we are not even try to force.

- Take a walk
- Engage in exercises
  - aside the physical and other health benefits, it has impact on the way we think.
  - Faster learning
  - Improved concentration
  - Sharper memory
  - Lower stress
  - Enhanced creativity
  - Prolonged mental stamina
- Take a break from the work

#### **How to successfully incorporate exercise into your routine**

*Remember, you’re not abandoning work. On the contrary:*
*You’re ensuring that the hours you put in have value.*

- **Find an activity you actually like**
  - you are far more likely to stick with an activity you genuinely enjoy doing.
  - They may be swimming, hiking, playing a musical instrument, or soccer.
  - it's much easier to eat healthy foods when exercising is seen as fun activity rather than a chore.
- **Invest in improving your performance**
  - purchase what is needed to help complete a goal.
  - don't settle for "just some exercise", be intentional and work on getting better
    - work on being able to do more push ups, more abdominal crunches, etc.
- **Become part of a *group*, not a *collective***
  - Be sure the circle you join pushes you to stay active and you get to do same for others

### Mindful Meditation

Become more aware of your own thoughts and feelings.

*It's the eternal practice of beginning again!*

"You should in meditation for 20 minutes every day - unless you're too busy. Then you should sit for an hour" *- Zen Proverb*

### Benefits of meditation

- helps to become more peaceful.
- also helps one to successful in their endeavors
- helps to learn better and recall information better
- offers relief from stress, depression, anxiety and even chronic pain.
- helps to create habits that stick
- you become more in tune for with your Self.

## Types of Meditation

- Body Scan
  - focus on sensations in any part of your body
  - start from the head, and work your way down slowly.
  - it creates a systematic way to release you from the stress your body hold from the past.
- Breathe
  - focus on your breathe, don't try to control it.
  - feel it move through your body and out.
- Guided Meditation
  - receive help from people or technology (apps)
  - set goals and go easy on yourself in the beginning.
  - **create a goal you can stick by, not one that will make you want to quit.**

## Meditation Resources

- [Insight Timer](https://insighttimer.com/)
  - Almost free
- [Headspace](https://www.headspace.com/)
  - 10-day trial program
  - paid services
