# The Daily 3: Morning Pages

## Notes

> Remember, the point of Morning Pages is the process and not the product.
>
> *what* you write matters a lot less than the fact that you write something. Just write!
>
> Yes, you really do have to write them *by hand*. No, they aren't just for writers or even for Creative People. Yes, they are pretty great.<sup>[1]</sup>
>
> Morning pages = three full pages of longhand, stream-of-consciousness writing in an 8.5” x 11” notebook, done as soon as you wake up.<sup>[1]</sup>
>
> Morning pages do get us to the other side: the other side of our fear, our negativity, of our moods.
>
> ...the pages are a pathway to a strong and clear sense of self.
>
> We are training our censor to stand aside and let us create.
>
> Morning pages are non-negotiable,

## Quotes from Cameron in her book "The Artist's Way"

> "Morning pages lead us forward by small steps. They convince us of our talent in tiny increments"
>
> "The pages are simple yet profound. We discover an inner voice that speaks to us with greater and greater clarity."
>
> "We are urged to take small actions, and as we do, we feel a sense of grace"

## Benefits

- Gives you clarity
  - dump all the negative thoughts on the paper
- Problem solving
  - helps to bring out hidden problems that need to be worked on
  - feel free to rant about them
- Helps with stress and anxiety
  - writing a stream of your consciousness enables you to get the toxic traits out
  - the part of your brain that causes you to doubt yourself is defeated when you allow your creative mind to take charge.
  - it helps you to even know how how to prioritize your problems
- You can complain here, no one's watching
  - be careful with this though, you don't want your days to be full of negative thoughts
  - give yourself grace
- Helps you with productivity, prioritization and goal setting
  - the most important things will repeat themselves in your writing
  - you get to weigh-in on the pros and cons
- Helps you discover what your likes and dislikes
  - it's easier to
- Creativity, of course
  - quiet the critic.
  - helps with discipline and new ideas
  - there's no censhorship from the logic brain
  
<hr />

## Sources

[1]: Here's Everything I Learned From Doing Morning Pages Every Day (<https://www.buzzfeed.com/rachelwmiller/what-are-morning-pages-and-why-should-you-do-them-an>)
