# Module 3.8 - Asking the Right Questions

## Asking Effective Questions

> **To understand the root cause of a problem, you need to be able to ask the right questions.**

### Why it is important

- **Information gathering**
  - relevant data and detailed information is gained
- **Clarifies understanding**
  - gain insights into a topic
  - challenge assumptions
- **Fosters critical thinking**
  - helps to develop analytical skills and better decision-making abilities
- **Build relationships**
- **Solves Problems**
  - helps you to identify a problem's root cause and find potential solutions.

### Types of Effective Questions

1. **Convergent**
   - **questions to drive toward a specific range of answers.**
   - answers are usually within a **finite** range of acceptable accuracy
   - **use** this when seeking to understand **how** and/or **why** things work
2. **Divergent**
   - **questions open up unlimited avenues for responses.**
   - *'what-if'* questions
   - often requires one to **analyze**, **evaluate**, or **synthesize** a knowledge base and then project or predict different outcomes.
   - **Use** when seeking to find **alternatives**
3. **Evaluative**
   - **questions to encourage deep analysis to answer.**
   - usually requires sophisticated levels of cognitive and/or emotional (affective) judgment.
   - answer is **analyzed** at **multiple levels** and from **different perspectives** before the answerer arrives at newly synthesized information or conclusions.
   - **Use** when seeking to extrapolate or connect the dots (with other facts) to understand the significance of an idea/situation
4. **Provocative**
   - **questions are designed to evoke an emotional response that may lead to deeper reflection.**
   - It challenges preconceived notions and seeks to **elicit an emotional reaction** out of the responder.
   - often takes a **contrary** view to popular opinion.

## Research Questions

- begins with a research problem
- a properly written question is **clear** and **concise**
- it should contain the topic
  - being studied (purpose)
  - **the applicable variable(s)**
    - refers to a person, place, thing, or phenomenon being studied
  - **research population**
    - refers to the entire group of individuals or objects that a researcher is interested in studying.

### What a Research Question Should be

> As a general rule of thumb, if a quick Google search can answer a research question, it’s likely **not** very effective. <sup>1</sup>

- **clear**
  - it should be specific, not ambiguous
- **concise**
  - should be expressed in the fewest possible words.
- **focused**
  - should be <u>narrow</u> enough to guide your writing
- **arguable**
  - open to debate
- **complex**
  - not a simple "yes" or "no" answer
  - requires synthesis and analysis of ideas and sources prior to composition of an answer.

### Types of Research Questions

- **Casual**
  - **Compares** two or more phenomena and
  - determines whether a relationship exists
  - often called **relationship research questions.**
- **Descriptive**
  Seeks to describe a phenomenon and often study “how much”, “how often”, or “what is the change”.
- **Comparative**
  - Aims to examine the **difference** between two or more groups in relation to one or more variables

### Creating Hypotheses

> Helps you organize and focus your research question and design a study that can answer it. It is a tentative prediction.

- It is typically used when significant knowledge already exists on the subject, allowing the prediction to be made.
- Data is then **collected**, **analyzed**, and **used to support or negate** the hypothesis, arriving at a **definite conclusion** at the end of the research.
- It is **always written as a statement** and **should be developed before any data is collected.**

### How to Write a Research Question

> A strong research question should **never** leave room for ambiguity or interpretation
>
> The specificity of a well-developed research question helps writers avoid the “all-about” paper and work toward supporting a specific, arguable thesis<sup>1</sup>

1. **Choose an interesting general question**
2. **Do some preliminary research on your general topic**
3. **Consider you audience**
4. **Start asking questions**
   - start asking yourself open-ended **“how”** and **“why”** questions about your general topic
5. **Evaluate your question**
   - Is your research question clear?
   - Is your research question focused?
   - Is your research question complex?
6. **Begin your research**
   - Find sources should you consult as you seek answers to your question
   - Use a research method that will ensure that you find a variety of perspectives and responses to your question

<hr>

## Sources

[1]: How to Write a Research Question (<https://writingcenter.gmu.edu/writing-resources/research-based-writing/how-to-write-a-research-question>)
